[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello, I'm Rees Jones,
and welcome to Module 8;
learning from your inner world.
In this module,
I'll be teaching you
how to bring about scenarios
in your lucid dreams
that are ripe with
meaning and purpose,
like recreating traumatic
experiences from your past
as a way to better come
to terms with them.
Upon first hearing this,
it's normal to feel
a little skeptical.
You might wonder what good can
dreaming really do for trauma.
And I hear you.
This is a perfectly
reasonable response.
After all, we've
grown up in a society
that has essentially forgotten
the importance of dreaming.
In fact, most of us don't
only disregard dreaming,
but we don't even remember
dreaming in the first place.
And because of that,
it can take a while
to recondition
ourselves and open
our minds to the full
range of possibilities.
But rest assured, the
possibilities are here,
and you don't need to have any
religious or spiritual beliefs
to benefit from them.
This is pure psychology.
Or perhaps you don't
feel skeptical.
Maybe it's wariness
you feel instead.
You might think,
do I really want
to relive these
traumatic events?
I'd much rather move past them.
And again, I hear you.
This is another
legitimate concern and one
you should seriously weigh
up before proceeding.
What I'm about to describe
isn't for everyone,
and knowing whether or not
you're ready for such exercises
is crucial.
However, consider this.
If strong emotions
arise when thinking
about these past traumas, they
still have a hold over you,
I dare say.
The strong response is
an indication of that.
And so, exploring them
from different angles
through lucid dreaming
and softening the edges
in the process might
just be what you need.
Anyway, you don't have to
make a decision right away,
but at the very
least, hear me out,
and then at the
end of the module,
you can decide whether or
not you want to proceed.
What I'm about to describe is a
psychological healing technique
called lucid acting.
The fundamental idea
of which is simple.
Upon gaining
lucidity, instead of
trying to exert direct
and sustained control
over the lucid dream, set up a
specific intentional scenario.
And from there, engage with
it as if it's waking life.
You do this not because
you're non-lucid or confused
about what's unfolding,
but because, instead you
want to experience the
scenario as realistically
as possible with the ultimate
goal of dream space closure.
But let's take a couple
of steps back here.
First, we need to decide
what event we want to relive.
This is where planning for
lucidity comes back into play.
So sit down and have a think.
Be precise and intentional
about what you chose.
And once you do,
add it to your list.
Then read through this
list before bed each night
to remind yourself
what you have planned.
In this module, we're
focusing on traumatic events,
but really it could be anything.
For example, perhaps you're
considering having a child soon
and want to experiment with
some lucid dreams that let
you experience that firsthand.
If so, add it to your list.
Manifest it in a lucid dream and
see how it resonates with you.
Try the scenario on for size and
explore how it makes you feel.
And after trying
it on, how does it
leave you feeling the next day?
Do you think you
could be that person
and do that thing
in waking life too?
So, as you can see,
there are all sorts
of ways this tool can be used.
But for now, as I
said, we'll focus
on reliving a traumatic event.
So nail down which event
you want to relive.
Remind yourself of it
before bed each night.
And then once lucid, draw upon
the memory and manifest it.
Sometimes you might
just automatically
find yourself in the scene
lucid, in which case, perfect.
Just roll with it from there.
If not, you're going to want
to employ a manifestation
technique.
Is there a door nearby?
If so, go up to the door,
and just before you open it,
say out loud what you expect
to see on the other side.
When I open this door, I'll
be seven years old again
at my dad's house.
Truly believe in your
ability to manifest it.
Then turn the knob
and open the door.
If there's not a door nearby,
just use something else.
What about a mirror?
You could employ the
same technique with that
and then step through it.
Or what about a wall or
a bend in a corridor?
You can use anything where your
vision is temporarily obscured.
If you're in an open field with
no way to block your vision,
then use your eyelids instead.
Say to yourself, I'm
now traveling back
to my dad's house
as a 7-year-old.
Hold a thought at the
forefront of your mind
and close your eyes
and open them again.
Or close your eyes and fall
back or close your eyes
and spin around, always
with the clear intent
that when you re-emerge
back into a stable scene,
you'll be exactly
where you plan to be.
This isn't as
difficult as it sounds.
Just believe you can
do it, and you will.
OK.
So let's jump forward and
imagine you're there now.
Your lucid acting
scene has begun,
and the traumatic
event is unfolding.
Now there are a few ways you
can approach it from here.
One way is to merely
let the scene play out
and reap the benefits
of exposure therapy.
Exposure therapy
is used to go over
a whole host of different
things like fear of spiders,
for example, the idea being
that the more you put yourself
in front of a trauma or a
fear, the more your psyche will
soften the edges, as it were.
Do this again and
again and again,
and eventually, your mind
will become equanimous
in the face of it.
Another approach is to actively
engage with the traumatic event
to see it from a
different angle.
For example, what was going on
in the head of the person that
traumatized you.
Perhaps you could ask
them, then listen carefully
to their response.
Whatever explanation they give
for their actions shouldn't
necessarily be seen as a
justification for what they
did, but considering the
possible wounding that they too
went through could, at the
very least, open your heart
and release some tension.
Here is yet another approach.
You could actually
enter the body
of the person that
traumatized you
and experience the event
through their eyes.
You could literally
roll players them.
These two could help
you get to the bottom
of why they said what they said
or why they did what they did.
Again, this shouldn't
be seen as a method
to undermine the severity
of what you went through
or explain away
what the person did,
but understanding the event
in a fuller, more complete way
can help heal you.
This is, of course, just
the tip of the iceberg.
Once you're familiar
with the technique,
it can be applied in all sorts
of different creative ways.
For example, maybe you were the
one that acted inappropriately
in the past, and you're
looking for closure
with the person you traumatized.
That's not always
possible in waking life,
though, because the person
might be dead or unreachable,
or perhaps it would simply
be inappropriate to reconnect
with them after the
trauma you caused.
Neither why in this
situation, the same technique
can be used for you
get lucid, manifest
the person you want to find
resolution with, and talk
to them.
Apologize and heal.